Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a primary tumor of the liver that usually develops in the setting of chronic liver disease, particularly in patients with chronic hepatitis B and C. A variety of important risk factors for the development of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) have been identified. In the United States, a critical risk factor for HCC is hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection. Amoxifen may also function as a potential inhibitor of p glycoprotein, the MDR (multidrug resistance) gene product, and this has led to trials of tamoxifen combined with various chemotherapeutic agents. Concomitant heavy alcohol use, diabetes mellitus, and obesity were found in various reports to increase the risk of HCC. HCC was associated with older age, black race, lower platelet count, higher alkaline phosphatase, presence of esophageal varices, and smoking. At least two environmental toxins, aflatoxin and contaminated drinking water, may contribute to the pathogenesis of HCC. Mutations of the p53 tumor suppressor gene have been demonstrated in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma who have chronically been exposed to aflatoxin. Alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency has been associated with an increased risk of HCC. Several observational studies have implicated coffee consumption as a protective factor for liver cancer, including HCC. Certain polymorphisms of the epidermal growth factor (EGF) gene have been associated with an increased risk of HCC in patients with cirrhosis. The physical findings in most patients with HCC (splenomegaly, ascites, jaundice, or other manifestations of decompensated cirrhosis) reflect the underlying liver disease. The majority of patients who develop HCC have cirrhosis, and may have thrombocytopenia, hypoalbuminemia, hyperbilirubinemia, and hypoprothrombinemia. The most commonly used marker for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the serum alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) concentration. Several other serologic markers (such as des-gamma-carboxy prothrombin) may indicate the presence of HCC, and used alone or in combination with the serum AFP may improve the diagnostic accuracy.